the one thing I never run out of is
baked beans perfect for when I want
beans on toast
but I found a fun way of taking the
humble can of baked beans and turning
them into something a little bit more
interesting if you thought you had to
use chickpeas to make falafel think
again my baked bean cheat on this
classic is simple speedy and a real
family favorite I'm starting by opening
four tins of beans I am popping all my
beans straight into a colander but you
can see I've got a bowl underneath
because I want the beans without any of
that liquid well that's really
satisfying the way that's dripping out
of those holes whatever you do don't
throw it away we're gonna use it that's
packed full of flavor run them under
attack to rinse off any remaining source
[Music]
Wiis those up
every good falafel has garlic and lots
of it so I've got six cloves of garlic
and then an onion you want to be
generous with the herbs so lots and lots
of fresh parsley add an egg and then
season it well then we're gonna add some
chili powder about a tablespoon of
ground coriander and then cumin I
laughed human so now just to bind
everything together I'm gonna add
chickpea flour and I grew up using this
making pakoras you know that's the flour
we had what I love about it is that it's
a very distinct nutty flavor it's a
tasty alternative to regular flour and
perfect for falafels you can feel like
the whole mixture kind of tighten up you
know it's ready when it doesn't just
kind of gloop off it's stuck I mean
that's going nowhere I've got a baking
tray lined with some baking paper and
I've got some water at the ready if I
dip my finger and look what happens it
all sticks to my finger but if I stick
my finger in with wet hands it doesn't
stick to my finger falafels are normally
deep-fried which means they need
constant attention to free up precious
time I'm going to bake them in the oven
[Music]
they still need a little bit of oil just
so they crisp up around the edges but
got the oven preheated to 200 and these
gonna take about 25 to 30 minutes but
you thought I was joking when I said I
was gonna use the sauce no we're gonna
use the sauce it's going to transform
these onions carrots and cabbage into an
effortless cingi slaw it's already
packed full of flavor but I'm taking it
to the next level with garlic parsley
spicy sriracha and a good pinch of salt
then there's lemon juice straight out of
a bottle and creamy mayonnaise all my
store cupboard stuff has turned my bait
beet juice into something that doesn't
look like vaping juice anymore and you
know what doesn't taste like bacon juice
either
[Music]
I smell amazing look like crispy on the
outside but lovely and soft in the
middle
we all need our go to failsafe recipes
and this is one of those it's the kind
of thing that I'll make in double triple
quantities stick them in the fridge
stick them in the freezer and then there
I've got them as soon as I want them my
sweet and spicy falafels turn an every
day ingredient into something
extraordinary in no time at all what
started off life as a can of baked beans
as now become delicious crisp soft
falafels in a burger full of flavor with
all that coriander and cumin crisp on
the outside and lovely and soft and not
dry in the middle I will give a fiver to
anyone who works out that this baked
beans in there those are good falafels
[Music]